you may have heard that school of motion
acquired mograph Mentor earlier this
year you're going to see some of this
previously behind a pay wall content be
released and accessible on schoolof
motion.com so keep checking back here
for more
[Music]
thanks we're going to start by looking
at animation principles but first let's
talk about why we need to study this
being a motion designer is the
combination of being an animator a
designer and a film maker and we believe
the best path in doing that is to
deconstruct it and study them one at a
time we're going to reference one of the
best examples I've ever seen of
encapsulating the full 12 principles of
Animation into easy to understand
examples let's take a
[Music]
look the following has been paraphrased
from the illusion of Life by Frank
Thomas and olly Johnston
squash and stretch this action gives the
illusion of weight and volume to a
character as it
moves
anticipation prepares the audience for a
major action the character is about to
perform each major action is preceded
with specific moves that anticipate for
the audience what is about to happen
staging it's the presentation of an idea
so that it is
clear straight ahead and pose to pose
pose to the pose is charted with key
drawings done at intervals throughout
the
scene Straight Ahead animation starts at
the first drawing and works drawing to
drawing to the end of a
scene follow through and overlapping
when the main body of the character
stops all other parts continue to catch
up to the main Mass Nothing Stops all at
once slow in and slow out as the action
starts we have more drawings near the
starting pose one or two in the middle
and more drawings near the next pose
fewer drawings make the action faster
and more drawings make the action
slower
arcs all actions with few exceptions
follow an arc or slightly circular path
arcs give Animation a more natural
action and better
flow secondary action it's an additional
action in the scene used as a supplement
of the main one in order to reinforce it
and add more dimension
timing more drawings between poses slow
and smooth the action fewer drawings
make the action faster and
crisper timing maintains the appearance
of an object abiding by the laws of
physics
exaggeration remain true to reality just
presenting it in a wild or more extreme
form solid drawings it means taking into
account forms in three-dimensional space
giving giving them volume and
weight appeal it's a quality of charm
able to please the viewer's eyes it's
the Charisma of the
[Music]
action now we don't expect you to master
all of these just by watching these
examples through the first time this is
something that you're going to come back
to as a motion designer for years to
come but it's important just to get it
on your radar
now if you're completely new to Adobe
After Effects then this content is for
you this is a piece of software that is
so incredibly important for motion
designers whether it's 2D or 3D really
everything at the end of the day does
tend to run through after effects for
final look final composite final render
so in this video I'm just going to give
you an overview of After Effects what
the main panels are how to create new
compositions how to import media bring
it into our timeline and then make
adjustments to the attributes of our
layers and then do some basic key
Framing and that should give you enough
of a foundation to tackle the first
assignment here in this class so without
further Ado let's go ahead and launch
After Effects and jump in so we've
launched After Effects we see this start
dialogue we do see our recent projects
if you're just opening it for the first
time you won't see anything here and
then over here on the left we just see
do we want to create a dialogue where we
open an existing or just start a new
project let's just click new new project
so the first thing to note is that we
can adjust this interface and I've made
a few adjustments to mine here when we
hover the mouse between two panels we
see this little slider icon appear and
it basically is going to allow us to
resize any of these windows and after
effects also gives us the ability to
kind of redock panels where we can
either close a panel undock a panel and
turn it into this here in which we can
grab it and then actually in a live
Dynamic way see where we want to uh
actually dock this panel so the entire
After Effects interface is basically
completely customizable which is really
incredible now if you just want an
absolute basic layout we can come up to
this menu here where it says window and
workspace and if we just come back to
default now just going to go ahead and
resize this a little bit let's talk a
little bit about what these panels are
I'll draw your attention over here to
the left and this is called the project
panel and this is where when we import
elements illustrator art Photoshop art
images video clips audio still images
anything we bring in as well as every
composition that we create is going to
be listed here in the project panel so
it's kind of like a big asset library
for this particular project now here is
the main window this is called the
composition window and we don't have
have a composition created yet but a
composition is similar to saying a scene
just a single timeline and sequence kind
of a single shot is what we can think of
as a composition so let's actually go
ahead and create a new composition by
clicking on this icon here and we're
going to be presented with all kinds of
options here first of all composition
name which I'll just go ahead and call
test but whatever the name of your shot
should be by default this basic tab is
selected and were immediately presented
with a preset window so if you know the
kind of media output preset environment
that you're working in you can just take
advantage of after effects' presets
where they'll give you frame rates uh
pixel aspect ratios and then overall
width and height and then you can also
just customize this so let's take this
to 1920 x 1080 a traditional HD and on
Pixel aspect ratio I want to make sure
that I'm using Square pixels but again
if you have an output format that uses
various kinds of you know anamorphic uh
or nonsquare pixel formats then after
effects gives you that ability as well
but if you're just doing standard web
content uh and most of the times you're
just going to be using Square pixels and
then the other big one here is frame
rate now this is totally customizable
this could be one this could be 100 this
could be the traditional film 24 this
could be the more traditional television
and broadcast of 30 or it could even be
something like Live Sports Broadcast 60
frames per second or even 120 uh you
know an ultra slow motion uh frames per
second now we can just input those
values there but we also have this drop
down menu where they give you some of
these classic frame rates that are most
commonly used so let's go ahead and
choose 24 now this next value here where
it says resolution that's basically
saying the composition resolution that
we're going to preview when we create it
and this is something that we can change
after the fact pretty easily uh but by
default here it's set to quarter we
could just say no just give me full
resolution and then it wants to know how
long you want the composition to be and
that's done via a start and an end right
the duration here so right now we have 6
seconds uh plus another 17 frames out of
24 frames so we can change this value
and let's say we want to actually make
this 16 seconds long and then it's also
going to ask us about a background color
if we just want a default color that's
fine we can just leave that black and
say okay now we're inside of a
composition so the next place I would
draw your attention is right down here
to the timeline right so this right here
if I grab this the top of this blue play
head here I can start to drag this
around and now you can see where we're
headed this is going to be the timeline
this is where we're going to start to
stack our layers when we either import
Media or we create custom layers which
we'll do here in a moment now within
this composition the way that we can
view this first of all we can come over
to this magnification ratio here and
right now it's 100% but if we just want
it to actually fit dynamically to this
screen we could just say you know
basically fit to this panel and then if
we need to make adjustments we'll just
make sure we're seeing our media uh at
the largest possible size now we also
have this panel over here which is going
to take a little bit more time to go
through we won't do it now but basically
this is a series of menus that do
different things some of them are just
giving us information some of them are
just giving giving us information like
audio waveforms uh some are actually
full hierarchies of effects and presets
that can be used there is the Align tool
and if you're an illustrator user that's
going to be really familiar there's the
Adobe libraries which I rarely use the
character menu here where we create and
manipulate text paragraph that should
that should be pretty familiar as well
the tracker and then some compositing
tools here visual effects tools the
content aware fill so if you're totally
new you don't really need to know all of
this yet but it's just good to get your
bearings now we will see over here in
the project panel that our composition
was created and it has our title of test
and now it's here in the project panel
so let's go ahead and actually create
our first element here within this
composition and I'm going to click down
here in my timeline make sure that I'm
starting at zero and then I'm going to
come up to this top menu so very quickly
this top menu is pretty simple and
straightforward and it's it does mirror
uh Photoshop and illustrator hopefully
you have a little bit of context for
what some of these icons might mean our
basic selection tool the keyboard
shortcut is V now if we want to move the
canvas around we can hit H for the hand
tool and actually reposition this within
the composition we have a zoom tool or Z
on the keyboard and that creates a
selection area that we zoom into I'll
hit H to bring that back then I'll hit V
to go to my selection tool now these
next three elements are great out
because these have to do with working in
3D which we will get to a little bit
later but we also have a rotation tool a
Pan behind tool which refers to moving
the Anchor Point of a layer that
keyboard shortcut is y now here we have
a menu of actual graphical shapes
rectangle rounded rectangle ellipse
polygon and star these are our basic
tools where we can create shape layers
and create Mass these are the default
tools now we also have a pen tool so we
can create custom shapes just like we
would an illustrator we have a type tool
for working with type this next slate of
tools has more to do with rotoscoping
and visual effects having a brush clone
and eraser when you need to actually get
in there and kind of paint frame by
frame it's it's also next to the Roto
brush tool so this is kind of part of
after effects' very powerful visual
effects Suite of tools um that we're not
going to get to just yet but just so you
understand what those are there for and
then we have the puppet position pin
tool in terms of creating puppet pins we
have this nice little submenu and the
idea here is kind of character animation
noodly animation things that you might
want to stick pins into and actually
treat as an animated puppet so that's a
pretty specific tool set as well now
really all we need to focus on at this
point is basically having the selection
tool and then this menu here where we
can create some shapes so let's go in
here and grab an ellipse and then I'm
just going to come back to my canvas and
you should see that your icon has
changed with the ellipse Tool uh
selected now if I click and hold and
drag I'm going to see a couple things
happen number one I'm going to see that
the Anchor Point of the layer is
actually in the center of the
composition not in the center of what
I'm creating and I'm also seeing that if
I'm not holding down shift I'm in a free
transform mode meaning kind of the X and
Y scale is all over the place if I hold
shift I will like uh in other pieces of
software constrain that Circle so I'm
holding shift and I'm clicking and
dragging to to kind of manipulate this
size now if I want to create this shape
exactly centered in the composition I'll
hit command Z to undo that and I'm going
to come down to this part of the
composition panel that says choose grids
and guides and this is where After
Effects gives us kind of a layer of
tools so if I choose something like
proportional grid I'm going to find a
Center Point here in the composition
which is nice and if I do command plus
and command minus I can zoom in and zoom
out of this composition panel so I'm
going to zoom in and then I'm going to
put this right on the center point and
I'm going to select shift option
command and then drag and shift option
command is basically saying constrain to
be a perfect circle but scale up from
the exact center so let's go ahead and
then uh create this now by default shape
layers come in as these blue layers and
after effects and shape layers are very
powerful and basically act as
containers where we could add multiple
shapes within this shape layer and then
also manipulate each individual shape so
there's a lot of utility in shape layers
you'll certainly be using them a heck of
a lot as an After Effects user if you're
doing a 2d animation that's you know
very design driven now we've created an
element it's here within our composition
panel that's one way to go about
creating elements that we can start to
move and manipulate and create key
frames and do animation the other way we
can do it is to import something and put
it in this timeline so I'm just going to
double click here within the project
panel so I happen to have this PNG of
the Instagram logo of all things uh so
I'm going to go ahead and bring that
element in and I did that by double
clicking here within the project panel
but you can also come to the file menu
and say import file and the keyboard
shortcut there is command I and you
command I and it's going to bring up
that import dialogue now it's just as
easy as coming from the project panel
and dragging directly into the
composition or I'm going to command Z
that dragging right down here into the
layer stack o excuse me right down here
into the layer stack within the
composition so that's one of two ways I
can bring this element in now there's an
important distinction with after effects
that there are elements that are pixel
based and there are elements that are
vector based and after effects shape
layer is a vector I can scale this up
infinitely and I'm not going to lose any
image quality this is not a pixel based
image now this PNG here although it
looks quite nice at this scale if I try
to I'm just going to hit s to bring up
scale if I attempt to scale this all the
way up I begin to see the image start to
break down and fall apart and I see this
pixelization happening because this is a
pixel-based image and and it's not a
vector and so when it comes to After
Effects you can work with pixel-based
images and you can work with
vector-based images and using Adobe
Illustrator would be another way to
bring in vector-based images but it very
often depends on what it is you're
trying to do uh but you you do need to
be aware that you can use these
different media types but they often
have you know different use cases
depending on on what you need to do so
I've got these two different media types
here within After Effects and I see
these layers and well let's go back to
you know I hit s on the keyboard to
bring up the scale property and then I
immediately have this slider where I can
manipulate that and I can click on my
shape layer here and hit s to bring up
scale now the thing you need to remember
is PSR position scale rotation so let's
select both of these by shift selecting
both layers and let's hit p and this
brings up position if I hit s brings up
scale if I H hit R it brings up rotation
and we'll notice I can manipulate all of
these I can hit P move that s for scale
position scale and rotation are the
foundational attributes of every layer
within an After Effects composition now
next to the word scale here we see a
little stopwatch icon and if we hit that
it lays a key frame so now we're off and
running we're we're setting key frames
so let's just actually create a quick
animation let's go forward to 1 second
in time click the stopwatch on
our logo and then click the stopwatch on
our shape layer let's go back to
zero and let's actually zero these
values
out now because we laid a first key
frame After Effects automatically laid
these key frames so that's a good thing
to be aware of that once you lay a first
key frame on a specific property like
scale
then it's live then whenever then
whenever we set another key frame or
manipulate the property again you'll see
it automatically adds a key frame now it
did that on the scale property if I
select both and hit P we'll see there's
nothing on the position property so we
would need to set key frames on the
position properties separately if we
wanted to do that now we have this
animation here and so if we want to
watch this animation instead of just
scrubbing it we need to adjust the this
this preview area and the keyboard
shortcut is B to set the beginning of
the preview area and to set the end of
the preview area it's n and you'll see
that this faded area jumped forward and
you should be able to drag that around
and I would get used to that um you can
also adjust this manually by just
grabbing one
Edge and adjusting it like so so this is
your start and your end now after
effects wants to do what's called called
a ram preview it wants to use the RAM on
your computer to render a quick preview
of the animation and to cue that up we
hit contrl Z on the
keyboard and we'll see that animation is
playing so let's go and extend this out
to something like 2 seconds control 0
again and we can see the animation
playing so that right there I mean if
you can get to this point then you've
got a really good foundation to dive
into the next levels of using after
effects before we go real quick though
let's go ahead and add some type to this
scene because I want to talk a little
bit about the type tool so I've selected
the type tool I'm coming over here now I
can see I get the classic type tool you
know icon as I hover into the
composition here and it's basically you
want to make a a click and now I've got
a live type tool here within the
composition and down here it's added
this red layer that says empty text
layer now I can just start
typing and I'll say
pixels and then I'm going to come down
here and just click on the layer to
deactivate the live type tool and then
I'll hit V to go back to my basic
selection tool and let's just go ahead
and move this around within the
composition and then hit s on the
keyboard to scale it down and then one
of my absolute favorite uh shortcuts
here within a compos position panel is
command D to duplicate a layer so just
quickly duplicate that
out and say
vectors I'm going to select both of
those hit
s take that down to something like 60%
and now we've added two pieces of type
to the scene now coming back to this
menu on the right here we talked about
the Align tool a little bit let's say
you've got two pieces of text and you
really just want to be able to quickly
align this that is where the Align tool
comes in so we just want to select both
of these layers down here in the comp
panel and then we should have the option
here to let's say let's say align bottom
so now they're perfectly aligned along
the bottom and it's really that simple
so alignment is going to work great for
uh just cleaning up two objects there if
we actually add a third and we select
all three we're going to see that the
bottom men menu of this panel actually
becomes active because this is talking
about spacing in between elements so
let's say you've got three items here
and you say oh how do I even out the
spacing in between these well that's
where this menu comes in so let's say
distribute horizontally and now that's
going to align that even out equalize
the spacing in between those two gaps
there so I'm just going to go back so
the alignment tools and the type tool
are incredibly uh useful things things
to understand okay so hopefully you
found this helpful to understand a bit
of the lay of the land here inside of
After Effects and now this kind of
empowers you to move on to understanding
key Framing and interpolation and
creating smooth animation and bounces
and all that fun stuff applying
animation principles inside of After
Effects so if you're totally new to AE
hopefully this helps you get over this
first little hurdle and let's move on to
some more interesting and fun uh and M
magical animations let's move on if
you've been watching this video and
realizing you don't have any idea what
some of these features do maybe you
should think about investing in a more
structured way to learn After Effects
School of motions After Effects
Kickstart is a comprehensive interactive
course that will get you really
comfortable working in After Effects in
just a handful of weeks whether you're
brand new or even if you've got a little
bit of experience but have realized you
still need to learn some of those
[Music]
fundamentals before we can dive into
after effects and start to master the
tool we have to understand some the
underlying concepts of what the tool is
trying to simulate and do for us that
really comes from the historical
tradition of Animation in that frame by
frame 2D way so we need to first talk
about a couple of really foundational
Concepts you need to understand the 12
principles of Animation that come from
traditional character animation but we
want to talk about spacing and timing
and looking at just three examples in so
let's go and jump in and take a look at
these ideas when you're just learning
animation we need to keep this really
simple animation is just a series of
still images that exist on some kind of
timeline so we can see it all play
together now in reality it's just a
series of still images but when you play
it all together it looks like an
animation this is this illusion of
motion and so I'm here in Adobe animate
and I'm going to stop this here and the
examples that we want to look at we want
to drive home this big concept of
spacing spacing simply means the
distance between frames so in each of
these three anim
I have essentially seven frames or seven
poses and I put dashed lines here in my
scene so you can see the exact position
on each of these and if I actually start
to scrub through this we'll see each of
these drawings that I made just very
quickly and roughly this really is the
essence of Animation it's about
positioning individual images in such a
way that when you play it it looks like
there's this illusion of motion so this
means that when frames are close
together it appears slow and when images
are further apart when poses or frames
are further apart then that motion
appears quicker or faster and so we can
essentially make things appear to move
fast or slow by positioning each of our
still images in such a way that we
create that illusion so that is
animation that's the big idea if you can
wrap your mind around that here at this
absolutely foundational level then when
we go into After Effects this same idea
is going to apply to everything that we
do except we're going to have a graph
editor and we're not going to have to
draw every single image will simply be
able to create elements and create
assets but then apply this idea that you
know even though we're in After Effects
we're still working with still images
that are going to be strung together as
an animation so we need to understand
this idea of spacing now spacing is
powerful because we can tell a story
with it too on the left the element is
smashing into to the final frame so I
put the frames close together at the
beginning and I eased out of that
initial pose and then you can see in
just three frames it quickly darts
through the center and then smashes into
its final pose now on the center example
here we have a classic ease in ease out
where the frames are close together on
the extreme poses and then further apart
through the center and then on the right
column here we just have a classic jump
where the frames are far apart on that
contact so we get all that velocity and
energy and then it eases up at the top
where we see the frames get close
together so this is spacing and it's
really the foundational underpinning of
all animation even more complex
multi-layered character animation that
you can begin to learn later on it's
still just the idea of where you're
positioning still images uh to create
that sense of movement so this is
extremely important to understand you
don't need to you know know Adobe
animate just yet but we just want to set
this foundational concept as we jump
into after effects and start animating
there
[Music]